<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/layout.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
                xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
                xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
                xmlns:pr="http://primefaces.org/ui">
    <ui:define name="content">
        <p>
            <span class="initialcap">F</span>requently asked questions are
            answered below. Just click on the respective question to show the
            answer. We encourage new users to study especially the questions
            related to interpretation of the results. Please also refer to the
            <h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/help">help section</h:link>
            for more comprehensive elucidations.
        </p>
        <pr:accordionPanel activeIndex="null">
            <pr:tab title="Why the upload of my PDB file failed?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        Errors during the upload of a PDB file can have several reasons.
                        As Fit3D relies on the BioJava framework to read PDB files, they
                        have to be well-formed and correctly formatted. Further, <b>there
                        need to be Cα atoms present for the residues of interest</b>. If
                        parsing fails for any reason, a BioJava <b>StructureException</b>
                        will be thrown, which may give a clue why the problem occurred.
                        Additionally, the PDB file upload is restricted to the file ending
                        <b>*.pdb</b> (not *.pdb.txt, which may be masked as *.pdb by the
                        operating system) and to a <b>maximum file size of 10MB for
                        motif extraction and 1MB for motif submission</b>.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="Why the upload of my target list failed?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        Fit3D only accepts plain text target lists that have the extension
                        <b>*.txt</b> and a <b>file size below 1MB</b>. All target
                        structures must be separated by a line break and identified by
                        their four-character PDB-ID (e.g. 4CHA). Chain-IDs must be omitted
                        because Fit3D searches in all chains, due to the inter-meolecular
                        search approach.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="Why is my query motif rated as too complex?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        Fit3D rates the query motif according to the <b>estimated
                        computational complexity</b> of the search task into three
                        categories: low (
                        <h:graphicImage library="static" name="images/complexity_low.png"
                                        style="width:16px; display:inline;"/>
                        ), medium (
                        <h:graphicImage library="static"
                                        name="images/complexity_medium.png"
                                        style="width:16px; display:inline;"/>
                        ) and high (
                        <h:graphicImage library="static" name="images/complexity_high.png"
                                        style="width:16px; display:inline;"/>
                        ). The estimation depends on the spatial extent of the motif and
                        the number of different residue types. Due to limited
                        computational resources of the web server, query motifs rated with
                        high complexity are not accepted for calculation. We encourage
                        users to use the
                        <h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/download">API</h:link>
                        for such calculations. Furthermore, <b>the total number of
                        position-specific exchangeDefinitions (PSEs) is restricted to three</b>, as
                        PSEs heavily increase computational complexity.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab
                    title="Why are not all structures in my target list recognized by Fit3D?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        If Fit3D reports less entries in your target list than you would
                        expect, <b>this is due to duplicate entries</b>. Internally, Fit3D
                        filters duplicate entries because it is not expedient to search
                        the query motif repeatedly in the same structure (Fit3D is not a
                        heuristic algorithm).
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="Why are duplicate matches reported by Fit3D?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        <b>Even if it seems at a first glance that duplicate matches
                            are reported by Fit3D, this is not the case</b>. Fit3D does not
                        consider protein chains individually due to its inter-molecular
                        search approach (matches that spread multiple protein chains).
                        Matches that are reported in homomeric structures can be
                        misinterpreted as duplicate entries, e.g.
                    </p>
                    <ul>
                        <li><b>1op8_A-57_A-102_A-195 (RMSD: 0.3482)</b> and</li>
                        <li><b>1op8_F-57_F-102_F-195 (RMSD: 0.3483)</b></li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>
                        <b> are not identical</b>. One match occurs in chain A, whereas
                        the other occurs in chain F. Also note the slightly different
                        RMSD values. Such matches are not omitted internally, to be able
                        to locate inter-molecular matches.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="Why is 2.5 Å the maximum RMSD
				limit?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        <b>With increasing RMSD limit, more alignments have to be
                            performed</b> using the Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) method
                        offered by BioJava. SVD minimizes the root-mean-square deviation
                        between two sets of three-dimensional points of the same size.
                        Consequently, the computational load is significantly increased.
                        Please consider to use our
                        <h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/download">command line implementation</h:link>
                        if a higher RMSD limit is desired. However, note that a lot of
                        noise will occur for RMSD values above approximately 3 Å for
                        small structural motifs. Please refer to the next question to
                        understand the theory behind it.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="What is a &quot;good&quot; RMSD value for a match?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        The least-root-mean-square deviation (RMSD) is the minimal
                        root-mean-square deviation of all possible alignments
                        (permutations) of two motifs. Due to the RMSD definition, it is
                        only possible to calculate an RMSD for two sets of points of the
                        same size. <b>Additionally, the RMSD depends on the size of
                        the two point sets A and B:</b><br/>
                        <h:graphicImage library="static"
                                        style="display:block; margin: 1em auto 1em auto; width:350px"
                                        name="images/lrmsd_formula.png"/>
                        <b>Consequently, structural motifs consisting of a small
                            amount of residue atoms will have a low RMSD if they have a good
                            agreement. In contrast, structural motifs consisting of more
                            residues still have a high structural similarity if the RMSD is
                            higher.</b> Consider an agreement of the
                        <h:outputLink id="pdb-1ZEQ" target="_blank"
                                      value="http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/explore/explore.do"
                                      styleClass="download-link">
                            <f:param name="structureId" value="4cha"/>4CHA</h:outputLink>
                        serine protease catalytic triad (the example job) of 2.0 Å to a
                        reported match. This is a poorer agreement than a match of 2.0 Å
                        against the five-residue enolase superfamily template.
                        Furthermore, the matching of different residue types when allowing
                        position-specific exchangeDefinitions (PSEs) is based on Cα atom comparison
                        due to incompatible sidechains. Hence, a match containing a PSE
                        and a similar RMSD is less reliable than a match without any
                        PSEs. To aid the assessment of match quality, the alignment
                        function should be used for visual inspection.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="How to interpret the RMSD plot?" collapsed="true"
                    toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        The RMSD plot depicts <b>the distribution of the RMSD values
                        of all matches within the RMSD limit</b>. It was shown that
                        significant matches tend to appear in the left region of this
                        distribution and form a "significance peak". This peak is usually
                        separated by an area where matches are sparse, followed by an
                        exponentially increasing reporting of noise. The Figure below
                        depicts the "ideal" RMSD distribution schematically.
                    </p>

                    <h:graphicImage library="static"
                                    style="display:block; margin: 1em auto 0 auto; width:800px"
                                    name="images/lrmsd_plot.png"/>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab
                    title="What is a good p-value for a match?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        The <i>p</i>-value is a <b>measurement for the significance of
                        a single match</b> and is computed either by an empirical model
                        (according to Stark et al. 2003) or by kernel density estimation
                        of the RMSD distribution (according to Fofanov et al. 2008). <b>The
                        lower the <i>p</i>-value, the higher the statistical significance
                        of a match
                    </b>. A "good" <i>p</i>-value should be significantly smaller than
                        0.1. <b>The <i>p</i>-value represents the probability that a
                        match of better agreement can be found.
                    </b> As for RMSD values, the <i>p</i>-value has to be treated
                        carefully. <b>Ideally, low <i>p</i>-values indicate matches
                        within the "significance peak" of the RMSD distribution and
                        therefore <i>p</i>-values are dependent on the RMSD values.
                    </b> The model according to Fofanov et al. is based on the RMSD
                        distribution describing the current search results. This is
                        generally more favorable than the approach of Stark et al. 2003,
                        which approximates the RMSD distribution using an empirical
                        derived model. In previous work we showed that approach of Fofanov
                        et al. 2008 is also robust when considering different atoms for
                        alignment and reliably identifies members of the enolase
                        superfamily with 99.68% specificity when all non-hydrogen atoms
                        are used for alignment (Kaiser et al. 2015 <a target="_blank"
                                                                      href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695840"
                                                                      class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block"/>).
                        But nevertheless, <b>cross-checking with the RMSD value, the
                        RMSD distribution, and the visual alignment to assess a match is
                        advisable in any case</b>.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
            <pr:tab title="Which atoms should I select for alignment?"
                    collapsed="true" toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500"
                    styleClass="fieldset">
                <pr:outputPanel>
                    <p>
                        <b>This depends on your demands</b> for the motif search, so there
                        is no general answer to this question. It can be meaningful to
                        align on the basis of sidechain atoms, if the motif is expected to
                        have large Cα variance, which is the case for enolase superfamily
                        or other divergently evolved protein families. In turn,
                        backbone-based alignment can be suitable if high sidechain
                        variance is expected. A bad quality model structure that is used
                        for query motif definition can be a scenario, where matching of Cα
                        atoms may be reasonable. <b>However, in general the method
                        specificity experiences a loss if less atoms are considered for
                        alignment. Therefore, the default non-hydrogen atom alignment
                        should be used for most cases. </b> For very special needs the
                        command line implementation can be used, that allows the
                        definition of arbitrary atoms (e.g. backbone nitrogen and Cβ atom
                        only) Please refer to Kaiser et al. 2015 <a target="_blank"
                                                                    href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695840"
                                                                    class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block"/>
                        for further information on how different atom representations
                        influences the quality of the method.
                    </p>
                </pr:outputPanel>
            </pr:tab>
        </pr:accordionPanel>
    </ui:define>
    <ui:define name="toolbox"/>
</ui:composition>