<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/layout.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:pr="http://primefaces.org/ui">
	<ui:define name="content">
		<p>
			<span class="initialcap">H</span>ere you can find detailed
			explanations on how you can use our web service to search for spatial
			residue patterns in proteins. You can easily click on the respective
			category to show the instructions. Brief answers to most
			usage-related questions are given in the
			<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/faq">FAQ section</h:link>
			.
		</p>

		<pr:panel styleClass="search" id="algorithm"
			header="How does it work?">
			<pr:panelGrid styleClass="inner-panel-grid" columns="2">
				<p>
					The search algorithm behind Fit3D is basically a combinatorial
					search approach that works by evaluating two constraints: <b>residue
						composition and geometric similarity (least-root-mean-square
						deviation/LRMSD) of match candidates.</b> In the following the basic
					algorithmic procedure is elucidated:
				</p>
				<ul>
					<li>determination of the <b>maximal spatial extent of the
							query motif</b></li>
					<li>determination of the <b>residue composition of the
							query motif</b></li>
					<li><b>for all search target structures</b>, do
						<ul>
							<li>eliminate residues not element of the query motif
								residue composition</li>
							<li>combine sets with the size of the query motif, similar
								spatial extent and matching residue composition (match
								candidates)</li>
							<li>determine LRMSD for match candidates</li>
						</ul></li>
				</ul>
				<b>Pairwise distance filtering</b> can be used to eliminate match candidates with inter-residue distances not compatible to the query motif. 
					For detailed information on how the algorithm works and why it is a valuable structural motif search method, please refer to Kaiser et al. 2015, <a
					target="_blank" href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695840"
					class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block" />.
				<h:graphicImage styleClass="algo-img" id="algorithmImage"
					library="static" name="images/algorithm_new.gif" />
			</pr:panelGrid>
		</pr:panel>

		<pr:panel styleClass="search" id="search" header="Prerequirements">
			<pr:panelGrid columns="2">
				<h:graphicImage styleClass="home-panel-img" id="motifDeductionImage"
					library="static" name="images/pdb_file.png"
					style="width:60px; display:inline-block; float:left" />
				<span>Before you can start the large-scale screening for a
					structural motif you will need:</span>
			</pr:panelGrid>
			<ul>
				<li>the <b>query structural motif in PDB format</b> (you can
					also use our <h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download"
						outcome="/extract">extraction wizard</h:link> or our <h:link
						styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/download">command line tool</h:link>
					to extract a query motif)
				</li>
				<li>(optional) <b>a list of search targets</b> as text file
					(you can also use our predefined lists)
				</li>
			</ul>
			<center>
				<pr:panelGrid styleClass="download-field-link" columns="2">
					<pr:outputLabel styleClass="ui-icon ui-icon-arrowthickstop-1-s"
						for="download-lists-url" />
					<pr:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" id="download-lists-url"
						target="_blank" href="data/predefined_lists.zip"
						value="download archive of predefined lists used by Fit3D" />
				</pr:panelGrid>
			</center>
		</pr:panel>


		<pr:accordionPanel activeIndex="null">
			<pr:tab title="Extracting a motif" collapsed="true" toggleable="true"
				toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>

					<p>
						To define a new structural motif you can use our
						<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/extract">extraction wizard</h:link>
						that allows convenient and intuitive motif definition. You can
						either access a PDB structure by its PDB-ID or you can upload a
						structure in PDB format. <b>The video below shows the
							extraction process step-by-step using a known PDB structure:</b>
					</p>
					<pr:panelGrid styleClass="inner-panel-grid" columns="2">
						<ol>
							<li>Choose <b>"Extract motif"</b> in the navigation menu on
								the left side.
							</li>
							<li>Enter a valid <b>PDB-ID or upload your own
									structure.</b></li>
							<li>On the next wizard page: <b>select residues</b> that
								should be part of the query motif using the drop-down menu.
							</li>
							<li>After <b>clicking the button "Extract"</b>, the motif
								structure is visualized and the toolbox shows further details.
							</li>
							<li>Directly submit a new search job by clicking <b>"Submit"</b>
								or download the motif structure for offline usage (click <b>"Download"</b>)
							</li>
						</ol>
						<pr:media value="https://www.youtube.com/v/-VnpCJZ3ibM"
							width="800" height="450" player="flash" styleClass="help-video" />
					</pr:panelGrid>
					<center>
						<b>Note:</b> If the extracted motif is rated as too complex to be
						processed by the web server, the
						<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/download">command line version</h:link>
						of Fit3D can be used.
					</center>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>

			<pr:tab title="Submitting a job" collapsed="true" toggleable="true"
				toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>
					<p>
						To submit a new job click <b>"Submit job"</b> in the left
						navigation menu. A motif file in PDB format is mandatory and must
						be provided by the user. Otherwise, the
						<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/extract">extraction wizard</h:link>
						can be used to obtain a query structure. The target search space
						can be customized by uploading a list of PDB-IDs separated by line
						break. Alternatively, different pre-defined target lists, that
						were computed based on sequence or structure homology analysis,
						can be selected. <b>The video below shows the submission
							process in detail:</b>
					</p>
					<pr:panelGrid columns="2" styleClass="inner-panel-grid">
						<ol>
							<li>Choose <b>"Submit job"</b> in the navigation menu on the
								left side.
							</li>
							<li>Upload a query motif structure in PDB format by clicking
								<b>"+motif file"</b>.
							</li>
							<li>Select a predefined target list of search targets or
								upload your own target list by clicking <b>"+target list"</b>.
							</li>
							<li>Choose a LRMSD limit up to which matches will be
								reported.</li>
							<li>(optional) Enter a representative description and an
								email address in order to be notified after your job has
								finished.</li>
							<li>(optional) Use the <b>"Advanced settings"</b> tab to
								enable/disable pairwise distance filtering, to change the <i>p</i>-value
								calculation method, to select alignment atoms, or to define
								position-specific exchanges (PSEs).
							</li>
						</ol>
						<pr:media value="https://www.youtube.com/v/_kTDH7C1hhE"
							width="800" height="450" player="flash" styleClass="help-video" />
					</pr:panelGrid>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>
			<pr:tab title="Advanced settings" collapsed="true" toggleable="true"
				toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>
					<p>
						Position-specific exchanges (PSEs) for the motif search can be
						easily defined by using the advanced settings dialog. This can be
						useful for analysis of diverse protein families or mutagenesis
						experiments. PSEs are residue substitutions that are allowed
						during motif matching. As the name suggest, Fit3D handles
						position-specific residue substitutions, e.g. one can define a
						single residue in the query motif to be also matched against other
						residue types. <b>The video below shows how to allow matching
							of different amino acid types:</b>
					</p>
					<pr:panelGrid columns="2" styleClass="inner-panel-grid">
						<ol>
							<li>Activate PSEs for your query motif by clicking the <b>"Define
									exchanges"</b> button (<b>important: the query motif must be
									already known</b>).
							</li>
							<li>Select possible substitutions for single residues from
								the drop-down menu.</li>
							<li>Click <b>"Set exchanges"</b> to apply your selection.
							</li>
						</ol>

						<pr:media value="https://www.youtube.com/v/Q6fzOL9bV9M"
							width="800" height="450" player="flash" styleClass="help-video" />
						<center>
							<b>Note:</b> The total number of position-specific exchanges
							(PSEs) is restricted to three.
						</center>
					</pr:panelGrid>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>
			<pr:tab title="View results" collapsed="true" toggleable="true"
				toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>
					<p>
						To view the results of your job click "View results" in the left
						navigation menu. You can now select a corresponding job to show
						all detailed results. <b>Watch the video below to see the
							whole process:</b>
					</p>
					<pr:panelGrid columns="2" styleClass="inner-panel-grid">
						<ul>
							<li>All jobs submitted during the active browser session are
								accessible under the <b>"View results"</b> section.
							</li>
							<li>If you used email notification you can recover all
								results of the session later. <b>Important: the results of
									each job are deleted from our server after 72 hours.</b>
							</li>
						</ul>
						<pr:media value="https://www.youtube.com/v/iIHYySWMBRw"
							width="800" height="450" player="flash" styleClass="help-video" />
					</pr:panelGrid>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>
			<pr:tab title="Result page layout" collapsed="true" toggleable="true"
				toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>
					<pr:panelGrid columns="2" styleClass="inner-panel-grid">
						<h:panelGroup>
							<p>
								When viewing the results of your job, motif matches are ranked
								based on the lowest least-root-mean-square deviation (LRMSD).
								Hints on how to understand and interpret the LRMSD are given in
								the
								<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/faq">FAQ section</h:link>. If you want to investigate a single match in detail, just
								click on "Show" or "Show in structure". Furthermore, you can
								directly access the corresponding Protein Data Bank (PDB) entry
								of the structure. Note that you can download all results or the
								LRMSD distribution plot by clicking on the "Action" drop down
								menu on the toolbar at the very top of the result page.
							</p>
						</h:panelGroup>
					</pr:panelGrid>
					<center>
						<h:graphicImage id="resultPageImage" library="static"
							name="images/result_page.png" styleClass="help-image" />
					</center>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>
			<pr:tab title="&lt;i&gt;p&lt;/i&gt;-value theory" collapsed="true"
				toggleable="true" toggleSpeed="500" styleClass="fieldset">
				<pr:outputPanel>
					<pr:panelGrid styleClass="inner-panel-grid" columns="2">
						<h:panelGroup>
							<p>
								Beside geometric similarity matches are rated according their
								statistical significance. Every reported match to a query motif
								is labeled with a <i>p</i>-value such that the user can assess
								true positives intuitively. <b>However, a significant <i>p</i>-value
									does not necessarily indicate a true positive match
								</b> because the underlying models are based solely on the
								distribution of LRMSD values. Hints on how to understand and
								interpret the <i>p</i>-value are given in the
								<h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/faq">FAQ section</h:link>.
								No biological features are represented by those models. To
								estimate statistical significance, Fit3D implements two
								statistical models:
							</p>
							<ul>
								<li>kernel density based model, corrected with a maximum
									likelihood estimated point-weight (according to Fofanov et al.
									2008 <a target="_blank"
									href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695840"
									class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block" />)
								</li>
								<li>empirical derived model according to Stark et al. 2003 <a
									target="_blank"
									href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12595245"
									class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block" />
								</li>
							</ul>
						</h:panelGroup>
						<pr:panelGrid columns="1">
							<h:graphicImage
								style="display:block; margin: 1em auto 1em auto; width:400px"
								id="pValueImage" library="static"
								name="images/statistical_model.png" />
							<h:outputText
								value="Illustration of a statistical model to estimate significance of local similartities in protein structures according to Fofanov et al. 2008. A kernel density esimation of the match LRMSD distribution is calculated using the Sheather-Jones bandwidth selection algorithm. Additionally, a point-weight correction (pwt) is applied to estimate matches beyond the LRMSD limit by a maximum likelihood approach." />
						</pr:panelGrid>
					</pr:panelGrid>
				</pr:outputPanel>
			</pr:tab>
		</pr:accordionPanel>
	</ui:define>
	<ui:define name="toolbox" />
</ui:composition>