<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/layout.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
                xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
                xmlns:pr="http://primefaces.org/ui">
    <ui:define name="content">
        <pr:panel styleClass="search" style="background: rgba(0,176,75,0.15)" id="newsPanel" header="News" closable="true" toggleSpeed="500" closeSpeed="500">
            <div style="font-weight:bold">
                2018, March 9th.
            </div>
            <ul>
                <li>added stats of total processed jobs</li>
                <li>fixed an issue with job deletion</li>
                <li>fixed an issue when using chain lists and MMTF</li>
            </ul>
            <div style="font-weight:bold">
                2018, February 27th.
            </div>
            The entire Fit3D webserver backend was updated. Fit3D now uses a different code base, included in the
            <pr:link target="_blank" id="singaLink" href="https://github.com/cleberecht/singa" value="SiNGA" styleClass="external-link">
                <pr:tooltip for="singaLink" value="visit the project repository"/>
            </pr:link> framework. A commandline version is currently under development.<br/>
            <ul>
                <li>migrates to SiNGA</li>
                <li>progress report of jobs</li>
                <li>support of motifs containing ligands, nucleotides, or water</li>
                <li>usage of <pr:link target="_blank" href="https://mmtf.rcsb.org/" value="MMTF" styleClass="external-link"/> parsing</li>
                <li>fixes CVE-2017-1000486</li>
                <li>added captcha verification</li>
            </ul>
        </pr:panel>
        <p>
            <span class="initialcap">F</span>it3D is a bioinformatics web service
            to search for spatial residue patterns in proteins, so-called
            structural motifs. Such motifs play key roles in clarification of
            linkage between protein structure and function, which is still a
            demanding process. Fortunately, the comparison of three-dimensional
            residue patterns can aid the functional comprehension. However, there
            is an urgent need for up-to-date and versatile computational
            resources to search for local similarities. Fit3D bridges the gap
            between easy usability and highly accurate pattern matching. Beside
            the online version there is also a versatile
            <h:link styleClass="hrefLink-download" outcome="/download">command line implementation</h:link>
            available.
        </p>
        <pr:panel styleClass="search" id="search" header="Structural motifs">
            <pr:panelGrid styleClass="inner-panel-grid" columns="2">
                <p>
                    The identification and the thorough comprehension of spatial
                    residue patterns can undoubtedly help to bridge the gap between
                    protein structure and function. Spatial arrangements of only a few
                    residues, so-called <b>structural motifs</b>, were observed to play
                    key roles in various biochemical functionalities of proteins like
                    catalytic activity or structure stabilization. Protein-protein or
                    protein-nucleotide interactions are mediated by only a few key
                    residues that can be abstracted to structural motifs as well.
                    Furthermore, it was shown that protein superfamilies can be
                    represented adequately by structural motif templates and hence,
                    distinct homologous structures can be detected. Especially highly
                    diverse protein families like serine proteases are a bottleneck for
                    overall structure comparison methods.
                </p>
                <h:graphicImage styleClass="home-panel-img" id="motifDeductionImage"
                                library="static" name="images/main_figure_1.png"/>
            </pr:panelGrid>
        </pr:panel>

        <pr:panel styleClass="analyses" id="analyses"
                  header="Features and advantages">

            <pr:panelGrid columns="2" styleClass="inner-panel-grid">
                <p>
                    Fit3D offers a variety of features and was shown to be an efficient
                    and sensitive search method (Kaiser et al. 2015 <a target="_blank"
                                                                       href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25695840"
                                                                       class="ui-icon ui-icon-extlink" style="display: inline-block"/>).
                    Beside easy usage there are several advantages over existing
                    approaches:
                </p>
                <ul>
                    <li>definition of <b>position-specific exchangeDefinitions</b> (PSEs)
                        for structural motif search
                    </li>
                    <li><b>detection of intra- and inter-molecular occurrences</b>
                        (especially relevant for interaction sites)
                    </li>
                    <li>definition of arbitrary atoms used for motif alignment</li>
                </ul>
                <h:graphicImage styleClass="home-panel-img" id="featuresImage"
                                library="static" name="images/main_figure_2.png"/>
            </pr:panelGrid>
        </pr:panel>
    </ui:define>
    <ui:define name="toolbox"/>
</ui:composition>