<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/layout.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:pr="http://primefaces.org/ui">
	<ui:define name="content">
		<h1>Terms of Service ("Terms")</h1>
		<center>
			Last updated: July 22, 2015
		</center>

		<p>
			<span class="initialcap">P</span>lease read these Terms of Service ("Terms", "Terms of Service")
			carefully before using the <a
				href="https://www.biosciences.hs-mittweida.de/fit3d">https://www.biosciences.hs-mittweida.de/fit3d</a>
			website (the "Service") operated by Fit3D Web Server ("us", "we", or
			"our"). Your access to and use of the Service is conditioned on your
			acceptance of and compliance with these Terms. These Terms apply to
			all visitors, users and others who access or use the Service. By
			accessing or using the Service you agree to be bound by these Terms.
			If you disagree with any part of the terms then you may not access
			the Service.
		</p>

		<pr:panel styleClass="search" header="Links To Other Web Sites">
			<p>Our Service may contain links to third-party web sites or
				services that are not owned or controlled by Fit3D Web Server.</p>

			<p>Fit3D Web Server has no control over, and assumes no
				responsibility for, the content, privacy policies, or practices of
				any third party web sites or services. You further acknowledge and
				agree that Fit3D Web Server shall not be responsible or liable,
				directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to
				be caused by or in connection with use of or reliance on any such
				content, goods or services available on or through any such web
				sites or services.</p>

			<p>We strongly advise you to read the terms and conditions and
				privacy policies of any third-party web sites or services that you
				visit.</p>
		</pr:panel>

		<pr:panel styleClass="search" header="Termination">
			<p>We may terminate or suspend access to our Service immediately,
				without prior notice or liability, for any reason whatsoever,
				including without limitation if you breach the Terms.</p>

			<p>All provisions of the Terms which by their nature should
				survive termination shall survive termination, including, without
				limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity
				and limitations of liability.</p>
		</pr:panel>
		<pr:panel styleClass="search" header="Governing Laws">
			<p>These Terms shall be governed and construed in accordance with
				the laws of Saxony, Germany, without regard to its conflict of law
				provisions.</p>

			<p>Our failure to enforce any right or provision of these Terms
				will not be considered a waiver of those rights. If any provision of
				these Terms is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court, the
				remaining provisions of these Terms will remain in effect. These
				Terms constitute the entire agreement between us regarding our
				Service, and supersede and replace any prior agreements we might
				have between us regarding the Service.</p>
		</pr:panel>
		<pr:panel styleClass="search" header="Changes">
			<p>We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to modify or
				replace these Terms at any time. If a revision is material we will
				try to provide at least 15 days notice prior to any new terms taking
				effect. What constitutes a material change will be determined at our
				sole discretion.</p>

			<p>By continuing to access or use our Service after those
				revisions become effective, you agree to be bound by the revised
				terms. If you do not agree to the new terms, please stop using the
				Service.</p>

			<p>
				Our Terms of Service agreement was generated by <a
					href="https://termsfeed.com/terms-service/generator/">TermsFeed
					Terms of Service Generator</a>.
			</p>
		</pr:panel>
		<pr:panel styleClass="search" header="Contact Us">

			<p>
				If you have any questions about these Terms, please
				<h:link outcome="/contact">contact us.</h:link>
			</p>
		</pr:panel>
	</ui:define>
	<ui:define name="toolbox" />
</ui:composition>